Update dev docs (#11513)
bokeh/bokeh: sphinx/source/docs/dev_guide/setup.rst

    or when you switch branches to work on different issues, for example.

To learn more about creating and managing conda environments, see `Managing
environments`_ in the `Conda documentation`_.

.. _contributor_guide_setup_installing_node_packages:

4. Install Node packages
------------------------

Building BokehJS also requires installing JavaScript dependencies using
the `Node Package Manager (npm) <npm_>`_. If you have followed the
:ref:`instructions above <contributor_guide_setup_creating_conda_env>`,
``conda`` has already installed the necessary ``npm`` and ``node.js``
packages to your system.

Bokeh usually requires the latest major revision of ``npm``. To install the
newest version globally, start from the top level of the *source checkout*
directory, and run the following commands:

.. code-block:: sh

    cd bokehjs
    npm install -g npm@7

If you do not want to install npm globally, leave out the ``-g`` flag. In this
case, you need to adjust all subsequent ``npm`` commands to use the local
version installed under ``bokehjs/node_modules``.

Next, still in the ``bokehjs`` subdirectory, run the following command

> to install all of BokehJS' JavaScript dependencies:

Reviewer: extreme nit: I try to avoid trailing possessives like this, they read awkwardly to me in text. Maybe it's just me. But FWIW I think any of these would be preferable

> to install all BokehJS JavaScript dependencies:

> to install all the BokehJS JavaScript dependencies:

> to install all the JavaScript dependencies for BokehJS:

Several tests and examples require Bokeh's sample data to be available on your
hard drive. After :ref:`installing <devguide_setup_install_locally>` Bokeh, use
the following command to download and install the data:

.. code-block:: sh

    bokeh sampledata

You also have the opportunity to configure the download location or to start the
download programmatically. See the :ref:`install_sampledata` section of the
first steps guides for more details.

.. _devguide_setup_environment_variables:

8. Set environment variables
----------------------------

Bokeh uses :ref:`environment variables <userguide_settings>` to control several
aspects of how the different parts of the library operate and interact.

To learn about all environment variables available in Bokeh, see
:ref:`bokeh.settings` in the reference guide.

``BOKEH_RESOURCES``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When working on Bokeh's codebase, the most important environment variable to be
aware of is ``BOKEH_RESOURCES``. This variable controls which version of
:term:`BokehJS` to use.

By default, Bokeh downloads any necessary JavaScript code for BokehJS from a
Content Delivery Network (CDN). If you want Bokeh to use your local BokehJS

> version instead, you should set ``BOKEH_RESOURCES`` to ``absolute-dev``:

Author: @hyles-lineata @bryevdv @mattpap This refers to the issue raised in #10694. Basically, the question is: What should we recommend for someone who generally wants to use a local BokehJS? When setting `BOKEH_DEV` to `true`, the variable ``BOKEH_RESOURCES`` will be set to ``absolute-dev``. This is why I assumed `absolute-dev` to be the best default value in this context.

However, I have mostly used `inline` in the past, same as Bryan. Matteusz recommends `server-dev`.

The paragraph above links to `bokeh.settings` which contains all information about these variables. I will also explain `BOKEH_RESOURCES` a little more in depth the upcoming BokehJS section of the dev guide, as Mateusz suggested.

Reviewer: I don't think we are going to agree here on the advice here. So I'd actually just punt and be direct:

> By default, Bokeh loads latest published BokehJS from CDN. If you have modified and BokehJS and built it locally, you will need to make a configuration change in order to actually use the local version with your changes. Here are three ways to use local BokehJS:

And then explain all three.

    `source maps` to help debugging the original TypeScript instead of the
    compiled JavaScript.

See :class:`~bokeh.resources.Resources` for more details.

``BOKEH_DEV``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are several other environment variables that are helpful when working on
Bokeh's codebase. The most common settings for local development are combined in
the variable ``BOKEH_DEV``.

To enable development settings, set ``BOKEH_DEV`` to ``true``:

.. tabs::

    .. code-tab:: sh Linux/macOS

        export BOKEH_DEV=true

    .. code-tab:: PowerShell Windows (PS)

        $Env:BOKEH_DEV = "true"

    .. code-tab:: doscon Windows (CMD)

        set BOKEH_DEV=true

Setting ``BOKEH_DEV`` to ``true`` is equivalent to setting all of the following
variables individually:

- ``BOKEH_BROWSER=none``
- ``BOKEH_LOG_LEVEL=debug``
- ``BOKEH_MINIFIED=false``
- ``BOKEH_PRETTY=true``
- ``BOKEH_PY_LOG_LEVEL=debug``
- ``BOKEH_RESOURCES=absolute-dev``

This way, Bokeh will use local and unminified BokehJS resources, the default log
levels are increased, the generated HTML and JSON code will be more
human-readable, and Bokeh will not open a new browser window each time |show| is
called.

.. note::

>     Setting ``BOKEH_DEV=true`` and therefore enabling
>     ``BOKEH_RESOURCES=absolute-dev`` causes rendering problems when used
>     with :term:`Bokeh server <Server>` or in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Setting ``BOKEH_DEV=true`` enables ``BOKEH_RESOURCES=absolute-dev``, which 
    can causes rendering problems when used with :term:`Bokeh server <Server>` or in
```

        python.exe -m bokeh serve --show .\examples\app\sliders.py

    .. code-tab:: doscon Windows (CMD)

        set BOKEH_DEV=false
        python -m bokeh serve --show \examples\app\sliders.py

This should open up a browser with an interactive figure:

.. image:: /_images/bokeh_app_sliders.png
    :scale: 50 %
    :align: center

All the sliders allow interactive control of the sine wave, with each update
redrawing the line with the new parameters. The ``--show`` option opens a
web browser, the default URL for the Bokeh server is ``localhost:5006``.

Troubleshooting
---------------

Updating an existing development environment does not always work as
expected. Make sure your
:ref:`conda environment <contributor_guide_setup_creating_conda_env>`,
:ref:`Node packages <contributor_guide_setup_installing_node_packages>`, and
:ref:`local build <contributor_guide_setup_install_locally>` are up to date.

If you keep geting errors after updating an older environment, use
``conda remove --name bkdev --all``, delete your local ``bokeh`` folder,
and start afresh, following the steps in this guide from
:ref:`the beginning <contributor_guide_setup_preliminaries>`.

> For more information on running and installign Bokeh, check the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on running and installing Bokeh, check the
```

.. code-block:: sh

    Python version      :  3.9.6 | packaged by conda-forge | (default, Jul 11 2021, 03:39:48)
    IPython version     :  7.25.0
    Tornado version     :  6.1

>     Bokeh version       :  2.4.0dev1-42-g9c3ee2f7e-dirty

Reviewer: we just updated to pep440 version I think this should be
```suggestion
    Bokeh version       :  2.4.0dev1+42.g9c3ee2f7e.dirty
```

``BOKEH_DEV=false`` and run the ``bokeh serve`` command in the *source
checkout* directory:

.. tabs::

    .. code-tab:: sh Linux/macOS

        BOKEH_DEV=false python -m bokeh serve --show examples/app/sliders.py

    .. code-tab:: PowerShell Windows (PS)

        $Env:BOKEH_DEV = "False"
        python.exe -m bokeh serve --show .\examples\app\sliders.py

    .. code-tab:: doscon Windows (CMD)

        set BOKEH_DEV=false
        python -m bokeh serve --show \examples\app\sliders.py

This should open up a browser with an interactive figure:

.. image:: /_images/bokeh_app_sliders.png
    :scale: 50 %
    :align: center

All the sliders allow interactive control of the sine wave, with each update
redrawing the line with the new parameters. The ``--show`` option opens a
web browser, the default URL for the Bokeh server is ``localhost:5006``.

.. note::
    Updating an existing development environment does not always work as
    expected. If you get errors after updating an older environment, use
    ``conda remove --name bkdev --all``, delete your local ``bokeh`` folder,
    and start afresh, following the steps in this guide from

>     :ref:`the beginning <devguide_setup_preliminaries>`.

Reviewer: Should this note be up in the conda section? It seems odd for it to be in "Run Bokeh Server" Or maybe a dedicated troubleshooting section?
